(ticdc) add cdc engineering and architecture roadmap (#10498)
pingcap/tiflow: docs/cdc-eng-roadmap.md

## Stability & Observability

### Goals

- The replication lag is expected (few seconds) under different workloads and throughput
- It is easy to diagnose issues of the whole lifecycle of changfeeds

### Projects

- Improve stability of TiCDC https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10343
- TiDB big transaction doesn't block TiCDC replication
- Adding index desn't block sink to MySQL replication https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10267
- Better observability for resolve TS blocked issue
- Simplify the timezone handling to reduce maintenance burden
- Optimize memory usage to reduce OOM risk https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10386
- Isolate new created changefeed impact on other changefeeds at initilizing stage

## High Availability

### Goals

- The replication lag is expected under planned operations like rolling restart, scale-in and scale-out TiCDC cluster, etc.

> - TiCDC can recover quickly under unexpected sinle node failure, partial network failure, and other temporary partial infra failtures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiCDC can quickly recover from unexpected single node failures, partial network failures, and other temporary partial infrastructure failures.
```

### Projects

> - TiCDC HA capability assesment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiCDC HA capability assessment
```

## Multiple Upstream Support

### Goals

- Multiple upstream TiDB clusters can share the same TiCDC cluster to reduce hardware cost and maintenance cost
- The same TiCDC architecture can satisfy On-premise customers, TiDB Cloud Dedicated Tier and TiDB Cloud Serverless Tier.

### Projects

- Remove upstream PD denpendency, store changefeed metadata to meta store

> - Throuput threshold for different upstream TiDB Cluster

Reviewer: Throupt -> throughput

> - TiCDC fetch data change logs from the Unified Log Service to eliminate incremental scan issue and simplify network complexity on cloud enviornment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiCDC fetches data change logs from the Unified Log Service to eliminate incremental scan issue and simplify network complexity on cloud environment.
```

> - TiCDC fetch data change logs from the Unified Log Service to eliminate incremental scan issue and simplify network complexity on cloud enviornment

Reviewer: This can also make the memory consumption of TiCDC server predictable.
